so I'm Dom
Hachey, I am the academic support teacher
literacy at Dr.
Losier Middle School,
and also the literacy SPR,
which means I'm just,
in charge of the data
and the accountability
for our literacy department here.
Yeah.
So today
I'm going to talk to you a little bit
about why we found the need
for common assessment.
And kind of what that process
looked like.
So a few years ago, we realized that
there was some inconsistency
amongst the grade levels
from when they would graduate,
for example,
from grade six to grade seven.
Some of the grade
six students got some things.
Some of the other grade
six students got other things.
So what we wanted to do was level that
playing field and have, some consistency.
So from there, we kind of decided
what are the things
that we need to assess,
that are most important to us.
So what we did
was we decided that we needed to find
where the writing was at with a demand.
Writing piece.
We needed to find where their fluency
was with their oral reading,
and we needed to find
what their reading comprehension was.
So from there,
we decided that we were going to do
beginning of the year screeners.
So we have a beginning of the year
screener
for each of those three categories,
and then we test them at the end
of the year to measure the progress.
From there, we also kind of decided,
based on some feedback
that we got from the high school that,
we needed to tighten up our writing.
So what we did is we sat down as a PLC
and we decided,
how do we tighten up our writing
and what are the the biggest elements
of writing that we feel
that are being missed?
So we decided that, punctuation,
capitalization and sentence structure
were the real, the the real,
the big factors that we,
we felt that needed to be touched up on.
So we created these grammar intervention
units.
Each of those runs about a month.
And we pre and post
test them on the way there.
And all of this data eventually
is going to be shared with the high school
so that we can communicate
what they've learned
and how they've learned it
by the time they get there.
Yeah.
I would say, if you're going to start
with common assessments,
you need to first decide
what are the biggest factors,
that are important to you.
What are the what are the things of
the kids are missing?
What are the things that you feel that,
they need the most?
So for us, it was in the writing.
It was communicated to us that
that the writing,
needs to be tightened up a little bit.
So from there, we really had to sit down
with our curriculum
and decide, what is it exactly
that we're going to teach?
How are we going to teach it,
and how are we going to communicate
the expectations to the kids?
So the biggest factor for for the student
learning was actually knowing
where the targets were for the kids,
and we needed to share that with them.
So from there,
especially with the new holistic
curriculum, we sat down and redesigned
a lot of our units
based on the holistic curriculum.
And it was it was a bit of a blessing
because it didn't matter if,
you know, we had one teacher
that was a 35 year teacher and one teacher
that was a first year teacher.
The the the playing ground was, was level.
So we sat down as a team
for about 2 or 3 days.
We had some supply teachers come in,
and we just really sat down
and honed in what we needed, needed to do.
And we made these student
friendly rubrics.
So every single outcome and in the new
holistic curriculum is now translated
onto a rubric that is in student
friendly, I can statements.
From there
we we take those rubrics,
we give them to the kids
and we, we,
we communicate what the expectations are.
And we do that
for every single unit that we do.
So if it's capitalization,
we go through the outcomes.
This is exactly what's expected of you.
This is how we're going to teach it.
We move on.
Did it do it for every unit that we have?
Yeah.